Blogpost: Hs-to-coq tutorial (+ Alectryon plugin to render Coq proof states) (#38)
plclub/plclub-web: blog/2020-10-09-hs-to-coq/2020-10-09-hs-to-coq.md

---
title: "Tutorial: Verify Haskell Programs with hs-to-coq"
author: Li-yao Xia
description: A tutorial on hs-to-coq
tags: haskell, coq
withtoc: true
alectryon: [-Q, "blog/2020-10-09-hs-to-coq/lib/Src", Src, -Q, "blog/2020-10-09-hs-to-coq/lib/Proofs", Proofs]
alectryon-cache: "blog/2020-10-09-hs-to-coq/alectryon/"
---

> ## Preface

Reviewer: The whole preface section is a little grandiose, which is cool, but I think it influenced your sentence structure a little too much. I'll put a few specific comments in further down, but I think you should just review the whole section a little.

Sorry if any of this comes across as harsh, I really don't mean it that way.

Author: I also find this section a little too over the top so I appreciate feedback about it!

I would assume most readers are familiar with the background already, so I cranked it up to be more thought-provoking (even if in disagreement) and more exciting for the occasional newcomer who's somehow never heard about any of this.
That's why it's more of a "Preface" than an "Introduction".

Programming is the power of automation at our fingertips.
A task, a program, can be run over and over, billions of instructions
per second. And with great power comes great responsibility.
A program can also fail, over and over, billions of instructions per second.
Many solutions have been devised to reduce the likelihood and impact of human
error in programming, testing and type systems being prominent examples.
Programming is also a domain where pure logic prospers especially well.

> Programs are mathematical objects that we can prove properties about,

Reviewer: This sentence has too many subjects, I think.

Author: Maybe I should just cut the last two sentences to say something like "Another approach is formal verification."?

Reviewer 2: I think that would be more direct and better!

and unlike other areas of expertise, the gap between our mental model and the
program that actually runs can be vanishingly small.

Proving programs correct is possible, but it is also very hard.

> A rigorous proof requires knowledge and discipline, whose acquisition takes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Writing a rigorous proof requires knowledge and discipline which take years of expensive training and experience to acquire. It requires sustained effort and perseverance to succeed.
```
or something like that. Your sentence structure here just loses the subject, I think.

expensive years of training and experience, and whose application necessitates
further sustained effort and perseverance.

> The cost of reasoning formally can be reduced by automating logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Automating logic can reduce the cost of formal reasoning.
```
